# Airtra
AIRTRA (An Airline reservation system) is a computerized system used to store and retrieve information and conduct transactions related to air travel. The project is aimed at exposing the relevance and importance of Airline Reservation Systems. It is projected towards enhancing the relationship between customers and airline agencies and thereby making it convenient for the customers to book the fights as when they require such that they can utilize this software to make reservations. The software has two parts, first is user part and the administrator part, user part is used as a front end and administrator is the back end. Administrator is used by airline authority. It will allow the customer to access database and allow new customers to sign up for online access. As a part of our project work for third year sixth semester, we have come with the development of Airline Reservation System software called ‘AIRTRA’.   Airline reservations system is first relatively simple standalone systems to control flight inventory, maintain flight schedules, seat assignments and aircraft loading. Today, one of the most common modes of travel is travelling by air. Customer who wish to travel by air nowadays have a wide variety of airlines and a range of timings to choose from.   The World Wide Web has become tremendously popular over the last couple decades and currently most of the airlines have made the provision for online reservation of their flights. The internet has become a major resource for people looking for making reservations online without the hassle of meeting travel agents. Our project intends to serve these purposes. It intends to check all the available airline database and return a string of results, which can help them in the travel plans.  The objective of the project is to create an airline reservation system where a traveler can request all flight information as per their journey dates. They can get information regarding time, cost, etc. all at the same time and place. When the customer calls the Counter Assistant for his/her travel needs, the counter assistant will enter the customer’s details (flight requirements) in the system. The system displays all the available airlines, schedules and prices. This system would help the airline to better serve its customers by category to their needs and book flight.   [Keywords: AIRTRA, airline authority, Airline reservation system, World Wide Web, Counter Assistant, Real Time, Airline, Flight Reservations, Schedules, Prices, Serve, Journey, Database(Server)]

Project Demonstration [Youtube]: https://youtu.be/bvNwGGdruTI

To run the system in your local environment, extract the files inside Airtra into the root folder. For example if you are running XAMPP extract all the files inside Airtra into htdocs. 
